Quotes

“The fear of death follows from the fear of life. A man who lives fully is prepared to die at any time.” ― Mark Twain

“It is a curious thing, the death of a loved one. We all know that our time in this world is limited, and that eventually all of us will end up underneath some sheet, never to wake up. And yet it is always a surprise when it happens to someone we know. It is like walking up the stairs to your bedroom in the dark, and thinking there is one more stair than there is. Your foot falls down, through the air, and there is a sickly moment of dark surprise as you try and readjust the way you thought of things.” ― Lemony Snicket

“I found myself thinking about President William McKinley, the third American president to be assassinated. He lived for several days after he was shot, and towards the end, his wife started crying and screaming, "I want to go too! I want to go too!" And with his last measure of strength, McKinley turned to her and spoke his last words: "We are all going.” ― John Green

“Every man's life ends the same way. It is only the details of how he lived and how he died that distinguish one man from another.” ― Ernest Hemingway

“It's better to die laughing than to live each moment in fear.” ― Michael Crichton

“It is better to burn out than to fade away.” ― Kurt Cobain

"Death is a stripping away of all that is not you. The secret of life is to 'die before you die.' " ― Eckhart Tolle

“When the time comes to die, make sure that all you have left to do is die!" ― Jim Elliot

“They tell us that Suicide is the greatest piece of Cowardice... That Suicide is wrong; when it is quite obvious that there is nothing in this world to which every man has a more unassailable title than to his own life and person.” ― Arthur Schopenhauer

“Sometimes dead is better” ― Stephen King

“I look back to where my life had been. It's always risky to think of letting go. That's why this is the perfect ending. Nothing left to reconcile.” ― Loretta Ellsworth

“To the well-organized mind, death is but the next great adventure.” ― J.K. Rowling

“Death always wins” ― Kelly Creagh

“We only live once. We all have an expiration date after that we will never come again. I am not saying that to make you sad. I am saying that so you can cherish each moment in your life and be grateful that you are here and you are Special” ― Pablo

“Suicide is a form of murder - premeditated murder. It isn't something you do the first time you think of doing it. It takes getting used to. And you need the means, the opportunity, the motive. A successful suicide demands good organization and a cool head, both of which are usually incompatible with the suicidal state of mind.” ― Susanna Kaysen

“Suicide sometimes proceeds from cowardice, but not always; for cowardice sometimes prevents it; since as many live because they are afraid to die, as die because they are afraid to live” ― Charles Caleb Colton

"However great a man's fear of life, suicide remains the courageous act, the clear-headed act of a mathematician. The suicide has judged by the laws of chance—so many odds against one that to live will be more miserable than to die. His sense of mathematics is greater than his sense of survival. But think how a sense of survival must clamor to be heard at the last moment, what excuses it must present of a totally unscientific nature." ― Graham Greene

"It's not worth the bother of killing yourself, since you always kill yourself too late." ― Emil Cioran

"The relatives of a suicide hold it against him that out of consideration for their reputation he did not remain alive." ― Friedrich Nietzsche

"I don't break the law made for crooks, when I take away my own property - thus I am not obliged to conform to the law made for murderers when I deprive myself of my own life." ― Michel de Montaigne

